>> Steve Kinney: There was a theme in
the beginning which is like taking over
someone's session, right?
That's bad, because once you can take
someone's session, you can be them.
And that's obviously a compelling target,
but like, you protect those cookies,
you put a bunch of safeguards in your
business logic, you sanitize your queries.
You're getting to the point where you're
getting, obviously there's, again,
all security vulnerabilities
are not the obvious thing,
they are some tiny, little edge case,
and we certainly didn't get to 100%.
But what I think is important
to do is at least call
out that there are still more
ways that your life can be hard.
And this one is, it's like one of those
ones where I think the danger is that,
kind of on that theme I just said,
where it's like, yes,
there are a lot of tools and
safeguards in place that protect you.
But you're not protected simultaneously,
right?
There are still avenues where this works.
And so
this is called cross-site request forgery.
You're not trying to be the person,
you are trying to trick the person's
browser into doing something that
they didn't intend on doing, right?
So you'd at no point get their token,
you don't even technically get
the information from a request, right?
But you are effectively seeking to trick
their browser into doing something, right?
And they legitimately have a cookie
that says that they are them, right?
And so if you are able to trick them into
doing something, yes, you didn't become
them, you didn't steal their cookie, but
you could theoretically get some benefit.
And so, for this, and
when we talk about cross-site scripting,
which is a different form of an attack,
there is prior art.
So for instance,
in 2010 there was a Twitter worm, and
a worm is basically a attack that
then spreads itself, basically.
In the case studies in this course,
did I include every Twitter attack?
No, because after a certain point where
it was getting hard to name them all.
So this is a CSRF worm,
where Twitter used to have an API, right?
Twitter.com/share/update, and
then a query param with your message,
right?
And so basically, by calling a GET request
to that URL, you would post a message.
You can put GET requests lots of places,
every image is a get request.
Right, just clicking on
a link is a get request.
You can call it a fetch without
even worrying about, of course,
you can put a background CSS class
that calls a GET request, right?
And so I won't tell you the details
of what this one posts,
because it's not appropriate for
this audience.
But basically, by seeing the link and
then hovering over it,
you too would tweet the link.
And this will be a theme that
we'll see of one of the easiest
ways you could still be
vulnerable to CSRF attacks,
is by just sheerly breaking
the principles of HTTP verbs, right?
GET should always be idempotent,
which it means it shouldn't change state.
You might get something back, but
it shouldn't change anything
on the server, right?
And this violates that and
creates a security hole as we go along.
Netflix had, again,
a similar idea with a GET request,
where you could just do
this JSON/AddToQueue?
And now if you had at any point
visited a page with that image,
the image wouldn't load,
cuz that's not an image, but
the GET request is gonna be sent, right?
Which means all of a sudden you
had brand-new DVDs in your queue,
and like yeah, I guess that's
not like a life-changing attack,
it depends on what the DVDs are,
doesn't it?
And depends on who's looking at your
queue next, it could make for a bad day.
In 2008 there was this paper that came
out that really kind of talked
about about the breadth of these.
And they, for most of these, they had
disclosed them before they put them out,
but there were some bad ones in there.
So this is kind of another way
of just data exfiltration,
which is New York Times had this form
on every article called email this,
that made a post request and
sent out an email, right?
But the thing about CSRF attacks,
it's like send and forget.
You don't get the response back.
So what they would do, is they would cause
your browser to send a post request with
basically you emailing them the article,
which at least will leak what your email address was.
They could put on spam lists and build
up nice, ugly, list that they could sell,
and stuff along those lines.
Right, and it was just a wide open,
like a tactic could just collect.
And if technically using both the site
as it was intended to be used and
tricking your browser into doing it,
and we'll see how to do it in a second,
for nefarious purposes.
And kinda like, one of those things,
they found it in this research paper and
they disclosed it, but who knows how
long it was happening before then, right?
This is where we get to that logging and
stuff along those lines.
If you had logs and you had some
way to at least check to see, hey,
it's weird that 10,000 articles this month
all got sent to the same address, right?
This is where that thinking
about the vulnerabilities,
you're not gonna catch
on that code review.
You're not gonna even catch
that probably in a scan maybe.
Maybe now you would, but
back then you wouldn't have, right?
It comes of like thinking of,
if I were a bad person, not that I am,
occasionally, what would I do and
how would I exploit this?
In that same article,
they found this fun one,
where you could open additional
accounts on behalf of the user or
transfer funds from one user's
account to another one.
Now this one again, we don't know
if it ever got exploited, right?
Because researchers found it, but we don't
know if it didn't get exploited either.
And it's one of those things where
some of these things just in the wild,
in real use cases.
YouTube in 2008, it's the same study,
had one we could basically do almost every
action a YouTube user
could do at that time.
Add stuff onto playlists, like,
all sorts of stuff like that, right?
And again,
it was legit user sessions in browsers
doing things that neither the site or
the people whose browser
is expected to do, right?
And as recently as 2020, there was
one that allowed account takeovers
through third party applications that
could then trigger a password reset for
TikTok and allow someone to
fully take over the account.
Cuz again, that's a legit request, but
the end result is the changed password.
Now, again, well, and then when I go
over the kind of definition of a CSRF,
but I'll say it now,
it's fire and forget, right?
Cuz you're taking their browser and
making it do something,
you don't get the response back.
But if one had a bunch of emails from
any kind of leaked data set, even that
New York Times one, and one was changing
all the passwords to the same thing.
Yeah, you gotta do some brute force
work to put two and two together,
but on a large enough data set,
right, you will do it as well.